docs/setup/local-setup.md, before:

Local setup
---
## Prerequisites
### Mandatory
- [Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases) 
- [Kubectl version 1.13/1.14/1.15](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [Cellery](../../README.md#download-cellery)

### Optional
- [Ballerina 1.0.3](https://ballerina.io/downloads/)
If Ballerina 1.0.3 is not installed, Cellery will execute ballerina using Docker.

This will setup the local environment, by creating a virtual machine with pre-installed kubeadm and cellery runtime. 

## Interactive Method

   i. Execute `cellery setup` command to configure Cellery runtime. This 
    will prompt a list of selections. By selecting `create ` section users can setup the Cellery runtime: 
   ```
    $ cellery setup
    [Use arrow keys]
    ? Setup Cellery runtime
        Manage
      ➤ Create
        Modify
        Switch
        EXIT
   ```

   ii. From the selections available for environment type, select `Local` to proceed with local installation:
   ```
    $ ✔ Create
    [Use arrow keys]
    ? Select an environment to be installed
      ➤ Local
        GCP
        Existing cluster
        BACK
   ```
    
   iii. For the local setup, select the preferred installation type; `Basic` or `Complete`: 
   ```
    ✔ Create
    ✔ Local
    [Use arrow keys]
    ? Select the type of runtime
      ➤ Basic
        Complete (Includes Api manager, Observability)
        BACK
   ```

   iv. Next, the CLI will prompt for confirmation to download and install the local setup:
   ```
    ✔ Create
    ✔ Local
    ✔ Complete (Includes Api manager, Observability)
    Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ←
    ? This will create a Cellery runtime on a minikube cluster. Do you want to continue:
      ▸ Yes
        No
   ```
   
   v. [Configure host entries](#configure-host-entries) once the cellery system is installed. 

## Inline Method

With the non-interactive method, creating the local setup with CLI commands with one go is supported. This supports both complete and basic setups as shown below:

| Setup Option | Package | Command <img width=1100/> | Description |
|--------------|------|---------|-------------|
| Local | Basic | `cellery setup create local -y` | Creates basic local setup. This download a VM and installs to your machine. You will require Virtual Box as pre-requisite to perform this operation| 
| Local | Complete | `cellery setup create local --complete -y ` | Creates complete local setup. This download a VM with complete cellery runtime and installs to your machine. You will require Virtual Box as pre-requisite to perform this operation| 

[Configure host entries](#configure-host-entries) once the cellery system is installed. 

## Configure host entries

Execute the following command and get the minikube ip address of cellery-local-setup
```
  minikube ip --profile cellery-local-setup
```
Add below to /etc/host entries to access cellery hosts.
```
  <MINIKUBE_IP> wso2-apim cellery-dashboard wso2sp-observability-api wso2-apim-gateway cellery-k8s-metrics idp.cellery-system pet-store.com hello-world.com my-hello-world.com
```

## Trying Out

Once the installation process is completed, you can try out [quick start with cellery](../../README.md#quickstart-guide).

## Cleaning Up

Please refer readme for [managing cellery runtimes](./manage-setup.md) for details on how to clean up the setup.

## What's Next?

- [Developing a Cell](../writing-a-cell.md) - step by step explanation on how you could define your own cells.
- [Cell Specification](https://github.com/wso2/cellery-spec/blob/master/README.md) - key concepts of Cellery.
- [How to code cells?](../cellery-syntax.md) - explains how Cellery cells are written.
- [CLI commands](../cli-reference.md) - reference for CLI commands.
- [Samples](https://github.com/wso2/cellery-samples/tree/master) - a collection of useful samples.

Commit message:

Update readme docs with known minikube issue

docs/setup/local-setup.md, after:

Local setup
---
## Prerequisites
### Mandatory
- [Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases) 
- [Kubectl version 1.13/1.14/1.15](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [Cellery](../../README.md#download-cellery)

### Optional
- [Ballerina 1.0.3](https://ballerina.io/downloads/)
If Ballerina 1.0.3 is not installed, Cellery will execute ballerina using Docker.

Kindly note that if you freshly installed minikube, you would have to execute ``minikube start``, create a temporary cluster and remove it. This is due to a known issue in minikube (https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/issues/5716).

This will setup the local environment, by creating a cellery runtime on a minikube cluster. 

## Interactive Method

   i. Execute `cellery setup` command to configure Cellery runtime. This 
    will prompt a list of selections. By selecting `create ` section users can setup the Cellery runtime: 
   ```
    $ cellery setup
    [Use arrow keys]
    ? Setup Cellery runtime
        Manage
      ➤ Create
        Modify
        Switch
        EXIT
   ```

   ii. From the selections available for environment type, select `Local` to proceed with local installation:
   ```
    $ ✔ Create
    [Use arrow keys]
    ? Select an environment to be installed
      ➤ Local
        GCP
        Existing cluster
        BACK
   ```
    
   iii. For the local setup, select the preferred installation type; `Basic` or `Complete`: 
   ```
    ✔ Create
    ✔ Local
    [Use arrow keys]
    ? Select the type of runtime
      ➤ Basic
        Complete (Includes Api manager, Observability)
        BACK
   ```

   iv. Next, the CLI will prompt for confirmation to download and install the local setup:
   ```
    ✔ Create
    ✔ Local
    ✔ Complete (Includes Api manager, Observability)
    Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ←
    ? This will create a Cellery runtime on a minikube cluster. Do you want to continue:
      ▸ Yes
        No
   ```
   
   v. [Configure host entries](#configure-host-entries) once the cellery system is installed. 

## Inline Method

With the non-interactive method, creating the local setup with CLI commands with one go is supported. This supports both complete and basic setups as shown below:

| Setup Option | Package | Command <img width=1100/> | Description |
|--------------|------|---------|-------------|
| Local | Basic | `cellery setup create local -y` | Creates basic local setup. This download a VM and installs to your machine. You will require Virtual Box as pre-requisite to perform this operation| 
| Local | Complete | `cellery setup create local --complete -y ` | Creates complete local setup. This download a VM with complete cellery runtime and installs to your machine. You will require Virtual Box as pre-requisite to perform this operation| 

[Configure host entries](#configure-host-entries) once the cellery system is installed. 

## Configure host entries

Execute the following command and get the minikube ip address of cellery-local-setup
```
  minikube ip --profile cellery-local-setup
```
Add below to /etc/host entries to access cellery hosts.
```
  <MINIKUBE_IP> wso2-apim cellery-dashboard wso2sp-observability-api wso2-apim-gateway cellery-k8s-metrics idp.cellery-system pet-store.com hello-world.com my-hello-world.com
```

## Trying Out

Once the installation process is completed, you can try out [quick start with cellery](../../README.md#quickstart-guide).

## Cleaning Up

Please refer readme for [managing cellery runtimes](./manage-setup.md) for details on how to clean up the setup.

## What's Next?

- [Developing a Cell](../writing-a-cell.md) - step by step explanation on how you could define your own cells.
- [Cell Specification](https://github.com/wso2/cellery-spec/blob/master/README.md) - key concepts of Cellery.
- [How to code cells?](../cellery-syntax.md) - explains how Cellery cells are written.
- [CLI commands](../cli-reference.md) - reference for CLI commands.
- [Samples](https://github.com/wso2/cellery-samples/tree/master) - a collection of useful samples.
